---
layout: default
---

## The ABCs of Link Positioning: A Guide to Optimizing Navigation on Your Webpage

Navigating a webpage can be a frustrating experience for users, especially if they cannot easily find the information or resources they are looking for. As a web designer, it is important to carefully consider the layout and organization of your webpage, including the positioning of links, to ensure that users can easily find what they are looking for and engage with your content.

In this article, we discuss the findings of an investigation we conducted. The main investigation is on the influence of the link position on the number of clicks generated, using data from the Wikispeedia dataset. This dataset provides a unique opportunity to study the relationship between link position and clicks, as it contains a large collection of webpages from Wikipedia articles, along with information about the clicks generated by the links on those pages.

By understanding the factors that influence the number of clicks generated by a link, web designers can make more informed decisions about how to optimize the navigation on their webpages. Throughout this article, we explain the methodology used in the project and discuss the key findings and implications of our study.

> Does the link position influence its clickability factor?

### Let’s first discover the dataset

The Wikispeedia dataset is a collection of webpages from Wikipedia articles, along with information about the clicks generated by the links on those pages. The dataset is of great interest for researchers to understand the way users behave.

What are the top 10 most clicked articles in the dataset?

TODO: List of top articles in terms of clicks


Are we able to compare the popularity of articles based on their number of clicks?

Well, the answer is no. We should notice that there is a bias in our reasoning. If we focus on the number of clicks, we miss an important covariate: the number of links pointing to an article can probably greatly influence the number of clicks. In other words, articles which have a very high number of impressions will probably be the ones which are the most clicked on regardless of their position. And looking at the top articles in terms of impressions, this seems indeed to be the case:

TODO: List of top articles in terms of impressions


To eliminate this bias, we should use another metric which best represents the efficiency of a link: its Click Through Rate (CTR), which corresponds to the number of clicks divided by the number of impressions.

Now, if we rank the articles according to their CTR, and we omit the outliers with very low number of impressions (less than Q1), we get a new ranking.

TODO: List of top articles in terms of CTR

Now that we have well defined our target metric, a first idea may be to investigate the role of the position of the link with its CTR. Do users take the time to go through all the articles, or do they prefer to click on the very first links that appear on the page?

TODO: Graph comparing the average position of the best articles compared to the others

This is easier to visualize with heatmaps

TODO: Heatmap (the heatmap can be transparent and put on top of a Wikipedia page example)

It would seem that indeed, links on top of the pages are among the most popular. Unfortunately, we cannot conclude about any link of causality at this stage.

### Are links appearing on top of the pages not just more related to the target of the player?

Are we really sure that links are most often clicked purely because of their position? We may think that links located on the top of the article are also the ones that are the closest conceptually to the original article. 

TODO: Image with example

Let’s explore this hypothesis.

Are links at the top of the article more semantically related to the source/target than the links at the bottom ?
Here we use a NLP model which gives a score to the semantic relationship between the article and its links. We show the results (if we get a higher score for the pages at the top that means that explains a bit more the results we’re getting. if the higher score for the pages is at the bottom, we give the recommendation to put them at the top to improve the navigability since we have higher CTR). 

TODO: Graph comparing the NLP model scores of the “top page” links vs “bottom page” links 


TODO: Graphs of the network for only-top-view vs  network for only-bottom-view

We can also calculate and show the number of lost connections for each view restriction.
Fun idea but maybe out of the scope (taken from a paper): Investigate the first link (How is it tightly related to the article. For example if it’s a country article, the link is generally the capital or the continent). The paper talks how the first article, if you repeatedly click on it, you find yourself in the Philosophy article (All paths lead to Philosophy) but in our case it’s another article (we can find it but I think it’s science ) . This is of course just a fun idea we can change it to fit in our data story or deleted it.


